[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Susan Grau is with us.
She is a near-death experience
expert, intuitive medium,
and grief specialist.
She's also the author of an
incredible book, Infinite Life,
Infinite Lessons, which explores
the spirit world, living, dying,
and the in-between.
Susan, welcome to the program.
>>SUSAN GRAU: Thank you.
Thank you for having me.
>>NOORY: What is the in-between?
>>GRAU: Well, we have
birth, we have death,
and then we have the
living in-between.
And that's when we
learn all our lessons.
It's all our experiences.
Children or newborns are the
closest to the spirit world.
And people who are
leaving this planet
are the closest to
the spirit world.
But everything in between,
we limit our beliefs
and so we end up
not being as close.
And so I talk about
that in my book a lot.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in this, all of this?
>>GRAU: Well, when I was a
little girl, I could see animals
float when they would pass away.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>GRAU: And we had land.
Yeah, and I thought
that was normal.
I don't even think
I thought anything.
It was just my normal.
But at 4 and 1/2 years old,
I was locked in an unplugged
freezer in a garage, and I had
a very profound experience.
>>NOORY: How long were
you in that thing?
>>GRAU: They said,
well, anywhere
from 20 minutes to 2 hours.
And, you know, it's somewhere
in-between, I'm sure.
>>NOORY: Did you pass out?
>>GRAU: Oh, yeah.
I left.
>>NOORY: You had a
near-death experience.
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: At that age.
>>GRAU: Yes, it was--
>>NOORY: What did you
think was happening to you?
>>GRAU: Well, first,
I just thought
I was locked in a freezer
and I was panicked.
I was screaming and I saw three
lights and a very profound one
said, stop screaming.
And I didn't listen.
I kept screaming.
And I was terrified.
>>NOORY: Who found you?
>>GRAU: My mother.
My mother.
>>NOORY: They were looking
for you for hours, I bet.
>>GRAU: No, she actually was in
the back of the house and heard,
"your baby is in the
freezer," and she ignored it.
And then she heard it again
about 20 minutes later
and she ignored it.
And then she said
time went by and she
heard what she thought
was my voice saying it.
And she ran out and flew
the garage door open
and ran in and
opened the freezer.
>>NOORY: That's one of the
most incredible stories
I've ever heard.
>>GRAU: I know.
>>NOORY: What got you in there?
>>GRAU: I was playing
fort with some boys,
and they told me if I
climbed up and got popsicles,
they'd let me play
more with them.
They were a little bit older.
And so I climbed up into the
freezer and it was unplugged.
And when I went to
turn around to tell
them there were no
popsicles, sadly--
>>NOORY: They thought
it was unplugged?
>>GRAU: Yeah--
>>NOORY: But they
didn't tell anybody or--
>>GRAU: No, they
actually closed the--
I thought it was a game
that I was part of a game
and it was going to end anytime.
But they closed the garage
door and they ran home,
or they went and played.
>>NOORY: And you can't open
those things from inside,
can you?
>>GRAU: Not in those days, no.
You couldn't get out.
And I tried.
I mean, I jiggled and
wiggled and tried,
and I was screaming a lot.
But you know, between
the fence into the house,
and it was separated, the garage
was separated from our house.
>>NOORY: Was this summertime?
>>GRAU: It was--
no, thank goodness,
but it was spring, late spring.
So it was hot.
>>NOORY: So it was hot inside
because it was unplugged?
>>GRAU: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did your
mother call the medics?
What happened?
>>GRAU: No,
actually, she didn't.
>>NOORY: She didn't
call the medics?
>>GRAU: No, I'll explain that.
My father was-- my father
was a pretty hardcore guy,
and she was supposed to
bolt it down and turn it
towards the wall.
And she hadn't done it.
No one was allowed
to play in there.
>>NOORY: So she didn't want
to get blamed for this.
>>GRAU: She didn't
want to be blamed,
but I had a cracked open chin.
So later on, my father
asked me, how did
you get a crack in your chin?
Because when my mom opened
up the freezer, she spun me.
And when she realized I was
ashen, and I wasn't breathing,
she screamed and dropped
me, is what she told me.
Went to go get a phone
because they didn't
have cell phones in those days.
And I fell and I cracked open my
jaw, my chin, and I came back.
>>NOORY: It was the
dropping that got
your breathing started again?
>>GRAU: Well, physically, yes.
But I think the spirit world
is what put me back in my body.
>>NOORY: And that's what we
come back to at this point.
Because of the
near-death experience,
you witnessed the other side.
>>GRAU: Yes.
>>NOORY: Do you remember
the other side at that age?
>>GRAU: Everything.
>>NOORY: What was it like?
>>GRAU: Unconditional love.
It pulsates, the beauty.
Flowers pulsate.
They're so alive.
Colors are so alive and
so in touch with our soul.
I can't-- I don't know how--
there are no human words
but everything is in touch with
your soul so you belong there.
And lights everywhere, and
music like you've never heard,
flowers you've never seen,
colors you've never experienced.
It's like being in a cartoon
almost, but not a cartoon.
It's live.
It's real.
But it's so beautiful
and so loving.
And, you know, the
angels, when they sing,
the words in the music come out
at the same time and they're
always singing.
And they're there for
the children immediately.
>>NOORY: But you're
in no rush to go back?
>>GRAU: I wasn't in a rush.
I didn't think-- I don't think I
recognized where I was, really.
I was so little.
And you take you
with you, I would
imagine there was a beautiful
stone and I saw faces in it.
And I tried to reach
into it and I couldn't.
And I imagine if I could have,
I wouldn't have come back.
I think that was
the pure other side.
That was it right there.
But it was like a giant
pyramid crystal stone.
And it was sheer,
so I guess crystal.
But it was beautiful but
I couldn't get into it.
And I was very curious
being a little girl.
And I think anybody would
be, even an adult, you know,
we'd want to know, what is that?
>>NOORY: Did it change
your life forever?
>>GRAU: Forever.
>>NOORY: I bet.
>>GRAU: When I came back,
I saw spirits everywhere.
They were in my bedroom,
at night especially,
looking in my window in
the corner of the room,
down the hallway.
I was terrified.
I thought they
were the boogeyman.
So I put the blankets over my
head and say, go away, go away.
And they didn't.
And I'm glad they didn't,
because as time went on,
I started to understand
everything they taught me.
I understood none of
it when I was there.
They taught me so much.
And now being the age I am,
you know, as time went on,
I learned what they meant.
And as things came in front
of me, like loss and things
like that.
>>NOORY: Susan, would you
recommend other people
go through near-death
experiences
or would you prefer
they stay away from it?
>>GRAU: Well, I would definitely
wouldn't recommend they do it
purposely because I don't know
what their experience would be.
But I think that if they
go through it, it's a gift.
Definitely a gift.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>GRAU: Yes.
It's so magnificent and it
changes you for the good.
You become a better person.
I mean, I don't
know what person I
would have been without it
because I was so little.
But I work with
children and adults that
have near-death experiences.
I'm a therapist and
I work with them,
and they tell me they're
changed completely from it.
It's just magnificent.
>>NOORY: What is the other
side mean to you now?
>>GRAU: What does it mean to me?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRAU: Beauty, grace,
unconditional love.
If I could-- we can't even
conceptualize that here.
It's impossible.
It's so magnificent,
that kind of feeling,
where not only are we loved but
we love ourselves, which is--
>>NOORY: Is there a hell?
>>GRAU: I didn't see any.
You know, I believe
what you fear, you feed.
And what you feed, you perceive.
And what you perceive
becomes your reality.
So I don't fear it and I
don't entertain it at all.
>>NOORY: And I don't expect
a little girl at your age
at that time to experience hell.
>>GRAU: Exactly.
>>NOORY: But do you
think it's there?
>>GRAU: I didn't see it.
And no, I don't.
>>NOORY: So you're not sure?
>>GRAU: Yeah.
My internal being
feels like it's not.
>>NOORY: But there's a heaven?
>>GRAU: Yes.
It's different than
what we call heaven.
It's a vibrational energy above
us, but it's right beside us
also.
It's everywhere and it's in us.
>>NOORY: But where do the bad
people go when they're gone?
>>GRAU: The bad people--
my hope is, is that they get
healed so that they don't
come back and do it again.
And so I really believe--
it's kind of like we send them
to a hospital here.
They go to a place
where they get healed.
>>NOORY: A lot of people
say that when they're
in their near-death
experience-- moment,
their loved ones
who have passed on
will visit them, comfort
them, be with them.
Did you experience that at all?
>>GRAU: No, I did not.
I didn't see any
of my loved ones.
I felt them, but
I didn't see them.
I saw the angels.
The angels were all
around me, which
is very common for children.
They have a different experience
because we don't understand,
and we feel safe with
something so pure and loving.
And I remember feeling people,
but I didn't have a lot of death
at that time.
I didn't know a lot of
people who had passed,
in fact, probably no one.
And so I wouldn't have
related to who they were.
But I knew they knew me
and I knew they loved me.
>>NOORY: Do you deal
with the spirit world
most of the time now?
>>GRAU: All of the time.
All of the time.
Like I have someone
here for you right now.
>>NOORY: For me?
>>GRAU: Yes.
>>NOORY: Who?
>>GRAU: Ian.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah, he just died.
>>GRAU: OK--
>>NOORY: He was one of our talk
show hosts on Coast to Coast.
>>GRAU: Very kind man.
Could be competitive.
I feel like he had something
with his organ and--
>>NOORY: He had died
of liver disease.
Non-alcoholic.
>>GRAU: Non-alcoholic,
yeah, he's not that person.
He's very good guy.
He's got a lot of
integrity in character.
>>NOORY: He was a
deacon in the church.
>>GRAU: There's the
integrity in character.
Very good man.
And he's happy.
He's gloriously happy.
And he's saying hello.
He just wanted me
to tell you hello.
He feels very close
to all of you.
And I can't tell you why, and I
don't know who all of you are,
but he's telling me he feels
very close to all of you.
And he wants you to know
that he's safe and he's happy
and he's not in pain.
And he's about 33 and he's
really, really liking it.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
he's 63 real life.
>>GRAU: Yeah, he's
33 there, he says.
And he really likes it.
No aches, no pains, no problems.
So he just wanted to say hello.
>>NOORY: Living is
for the living, Susan.
I've always believed that.
>>GRAU: Yeah, I agree
with that very much.
>>NOORY: Is that a line
from Shawshank Redemption,
"get on living or get on
dying," or something like that.
What do you recommend
to people who
are on the fence about
the other side, who
might not believe it's real?
>>GRAU: Something will happen
in their lives that will
help them understand it more.
And I think that we
just limit our beliefs.
We have a brain,
so we have a soul
that's connected like a vine
to the spirit world, which
is our healer mechanism.
It doesn't get wounded,
it's not damaged.
And that's why we can go
inside ourselves and heal.
We can heal our brain,
our brokenness, our pain,
our suffering through that
soul source, which is spirit.
And when people go through
a lot of trauma and pain.
Fortunately for them,
they have that soul area
that they can tap into to heal.
The more pain you go through,
the less your beliefs
are limited.
So we-- you know, pain,
negative and positive,
are equal in value.
Good and bad are equal in value.
They both teach us something.
And in fact, I think the
negative teaches us more.
>>NOORY: Did your near-death
experience awaken your abilities
as a medium?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
They were already there, but it
definitely brought it to light.
And they were everywhere.
And I didn't try to be a medium.
I didn't even know what it was.
And in fact, it was
James Van Praagh
that I met first that told me--
>>NOORY: One of the best--
>>GRAU: He said, you've
had a near-death experience
and they're
everywhere around you.
Just walked right up to me.
And from then on, I knew him
because he knew my story.
But I didn't know
what a medium was.
I didn't have any connection
to that, really, until I was--
>>NOORY: I bet you know now.
>>GRAU: I know now.
I do therapy work.
I work with grief and addiction.
And to have mediumship come
in and be my main squeeze
is really bizarre to me.
But people kept coming to
me because I knew things.
>>NOORY: Is grief
natural for people?
>>GRAU: Yes, we
grieve from the moment
we're born as simple down to our
blankie our mother takes away,
our bottle our
mother takes away.
We are being prepared for the
major griefs, our whole journey.
So that our soul can
help us get through it.
And so we're not--
it's not something that
just comes out of the blue.
There's just different levels of
grief but we're always grieving.
>>NOORY: Do we all
have guardian angels?
>>GRAU: Yes, we do.
We usually have 6 to 12.
That's what I saw.
I had three there.
But what I saw, meaning with
other people that I saw there,
I mean, I could see people,
I just didn't know them.
>>NOORY: How do you
know the difference
between a loved one, a guardian
angel, whatever you have there?
>>GRAU: Familiarity.
So a loved one is familiar,
you'll feel loved,
you'll feel-- your hair will
stand on and you'll smell them.
You'll feel them.
You'll want to touch.
You'll want to get close.
Where a guide is more
stern, they're guiding you.
So they're more
teaching you things.
And then the angels
are just pure love.
That's what you feel from them.
There's no familiarity,
really, but your loved ones
are familiar to you.
That's how--
>>NOORY: Kind of
reminds me of the movie,
"It's a Wonderful Life"
with Jimmy Stewart.
Remember that one?
>>GRAU: Yes, I do remember it.
>>NOORY: Clarence's guardian
angel saved his life, basically.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
>>NOORY: We've got a clip of you
tuning into someone's daughter
who passed.
Let's take a look at that.
>>GRAU: OK.
I have a little girl.
Tragic accident.
I'm almost here.
She's between 10 and 12.
I see a bike.
I see a car.
I see a head injury.
I see you're going down a
hill and she's going very fast
and not being able to stop.
You understand that information?
I also see that she did
not die on the scene.
You understand that information.
She said she heard
everything you said to her.
And even though she
was in a hospital
and she wasn't coming
back to talk to you,
she heard every loving
word you ever said to her.
All the i-love-yous,
all the kisses
from the family,
all the adoration.
I see someone rubbing
her toes and making
sure her feet are warm.
For some reason, her
feet had significance.
I see kisses.
I see a lot of fluff.
Who is Molly?
>> Our daughter.
>>GRAU: That's her name?
OK, thank you.
I want you to know that Molly
is always with you, always.
And she says thank
you for loving me.
Thank you for
being there for me.
What kind of bracelet--
honor?
She knows, she has the bracelet.
She wants you to
know she knows that.
You also light a candle for her.
Yes?
>> Yes.
Yes, we did.
>>GRAU: All right.
She sees the candle.
Wizard of Oz keeps coming
to me for some reason.
I don't know what that means.
Do you understand that?
>> She loved
theater and singing,
and she would sing
Somewhere Over the Rainbow.
>>GRAU: I also see a
grandmother on the other side.
Do you understand
this information?
And grandma is also
there with her,
giving her lots
and lots of love.
>> My grandmother is
passed, so she raised me.
Could be her-- also John's
grandmother is also named Molly.
She's passed as well.
>> For my grandmother.
For my--
>>GRAU: I think she's
with your grandma.
>> Yeah.
>>GRAU: She's with her both.
Families want to stay
together on the other side.
Nobody's left behind.
She wanted to be an actress.
That was her dream.
And she says so
she's doing it there.
She wants you to know that.
Do you understand that the
song, you are my sunshine,
my only sunshine?
>> Yeah.
>>GRAU: It has great
significance, doesn't it?
Because she's singing
up to you now.
Yeah, but she sang
it to mine, too.
She loves you very much.
But what she's telling
me is that she likes to--
and not seeing monarchs,
which is interesting.
I'm actually seeing
white and yellow.
>> Yellow is her favorite color.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
So that's for you.
>>NOORY: A lot of emotion
in that room, Susan.
>>GRAU: Very much so.
It's emotional watching it.
I have to tell you,
I haven't watched it.
>>NOORY: You're getting
misty-eyed already.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
>>NOORY: She was broken up and
I noticed people in the audience
with the tissues and
things like that.
>>GRAU: It's a beautiful way to
connect people to their grief
and help them heal.
Most people come to
me and they'll say,
I feel like I've been in
therapy for six years,
just in this one hour.
It's just mediumship
is a vine to the soul,
and the soul is helping
you with your grief,
and spirit comes
in and does that.
But when they're saying they
understand, I'm thinking--
I don't usually
share this, but I'm
thinking, how did I know that?
That's what I do.
So they'll go, how
did you know that?
And they'll cover their mouths
and I go, how did I know that?
It seems impossible, but I do.
And I don't know how.
It just happens.
>>NOORY: Do you
have a guide who's
talking to you in your head?
>>GRAU: I have
guides, but mediumship
feels like it drops
into the top of my head
and goes through my body
and it's just a knowing.
And I use all the clair-senses.
They're all there.
So I smell, taste,
touch, hear, see.
>>NOORY: You have it all?
>>GRAU: Yes.
>>NOORY: Can anybody receive
messages from the other side?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
But when you limit your
beliefs, the answer is no.
So you have to get rid
of your limiting beliefs
and you have to do kind
of a stepping process.
And so I teach people how to
do that by, I call it the three
A's.
>>NOORY: Which are?
>>GRAU: Awareness,
Acceptance, and Action.
You become aware
that they're there.
Your hair stands on end.
You have these responses,
physical or emotional.
And they become aware
that you're aware.
And then you accept
they're there
and they realize that
you're accepting it.
And then the action is trust.
You trust they're there.
And once you do that, you've
removed your limiting beliefs
and they step in to help you.
And they're so
excited that you're
listening that they're going to
give you all the messages they
possibly can.
>>NOORY: Well, as
a medium, you've
had profound experiences
transmitting messages
from the other side.
Let's have a look at another
one of these readings
that you've done.
>>GRAU: I feel like
they're both around.
Your mother is with your father.
You understand that information?
And your father wants you to
know how much he loves you.
And he's sorry for everything.
He's been sorry since
he's left, and he
wishes he would have said more
to you when you went to see him.
He wishes he would have
been able to say more,
is what he's saying right now.
I wish I would have
been able to say more.
So I don't know what was
wrong that he couldn't.
Just a little, not too much.
OK, thank you.
He's telling me that
he was speaking.
In his mind, he was trying
to give you information
that he was weak at that point.
I see him crossing over and
trying to give you messages
and then coming
back into his body.
So I want you to
know that he was
trying to make amends to you.
He's telling me to tell you
that he knows your soul.
Your mother was your best
friend, much more so than her--
this was the love of
your mother's life.
>>RAYMOND GONZALES: Yeah.
>>GRAU: Your mother
couldn't get enough of him.
And so to have to leave
him was a protection.
But it's not your
fault. It's his.
Her protecting you was
about him, not you.
And I want you to
always remember that.
Your father wants
you to know that he's
trying very hard to clean up
whatever he caused, the pain
that he caused you.
He wants to clean
it up, and he wants
you to know that you're
very important to him.
>>GONZALES: The
one part that was
Susan that really got me
is when she started talking
about my dad, because it was
just like a relationship that
was never good.
And when she went there, she
opened up a whole like a chapter
that I'd always
just try to forget.
And just everything came
back to the surface.
And I think, in ways,
it was healing for me
because it was something
I've held on to
for quite some time in my life.
I struggled as a man and just
because of how I was treated.
And so when she told me
the things she told me,
it really like--
it fills me and it made me feel
better about myself as a man
and doing what I'm doing
in my life, that I am--
today I'm worth it.
And I'm just like, I'm not
where he said I was, so--
I'm sorry.
I'm an emotional bear.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: It gets emotional
even for tough guys like him.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
It is.
It's a healing mechanism.
And when you miss someone
and all of a sudden
you're hearing things
that make sense to you,
and I believe that
mediumship is evidential.
You need to have evidence.
And so when you
hear that evidence,
you feel the energy of them.
You start to feel
it with the medium.
And so there's so much healing
when they can say they're sorry
or fix something.
>>NOORY: What is it like
to help other people?
>>GRAU: Amazing, but
it's also very painful.
>>NOORY: For both of you?
>>GRAU: I try not to take
on other people's pain
because that wouldn't be OK.
But sometimes, especially
when it's children,
I've had an experience
with a child
recently that I literally
sat out in my outer office
and sobbed, just sobbed.
It's so overwhelming
when a child is injured.
>>NOORY: Why do you keep
doing what you're doing?
>>GRAU: Because
I'm called to it.
I can't stop.
It's just part of me.
It's part it's-- it's
not an extension of me.
It's part of who I am.
>>NOORY: It gets emotional,
though, doesn't it?
>>GRAU: It does,
but it also feels
wonderful to help
someone heal something
that they've been holding
on to their whole lives
and they have no mechanism
or way in their minds
to connect with that person and
get the freedom of I'm sorry
and I love you, and
I've always loved you.
And it wasn't you.
It was me.
I mean, those are healing words.
>>NOORY: How do you get and
make people feel comfortable
with your mediumship?
By giving them closure?
What are you doing for them
that gives them that ability
not to grieve as much?
>>GRAU: I believe it's closure.
I think that, you know, it
won't change the grief process
because grief decides
when it's done with you.
You don't decide when
you're done with it.
So it doesn't
change the process.
But what it does do is give you
a sense of peace in your grief,
of knowing that your
loved one is still there
and around you and
they're not gone forever
and you will see them again.
>>NOORY: Are there
common messages
that spirits convey to
you about the other side?
>>GRAU: Yes, that they love
us, that everything will be OK.
When I was crying
over a child one time,
I was sitting in a room and
an orb shaped like a heart--
I actually was filming and an
orb just came in front of me
like a heart and dropped down.
I kept saying, I
love all of you,
but I can't do this anymore.
And I saw that orb
and I have it on film
and it just went right in
front of me and dropped.
And they were telling
me they loved me.
And it changed everything.
And I was able to go back
and keep doing my job.
>>NOORY: Susan, you seem
very positive and upbeat.
What does negativity do?
Not necessarily from
you, but from others
to this whole scheme.
>>GRAU: Well, I wasn't--
I have two brothers and a
mother that committed suicide.
>>NOORY: I'm sorry to hear that.
>>GRAU: Well, it made
me a better person and--
>>NOORY: Two brothers
and a mother?
My god.
>>GRAU: And in fact, tomorrow
is the death date of my mom.
And I don't grieve like I did.
And they don't talk
to me that much
because I'm too close to it.
But I think that when you
go into the negative space,
you go into that fear base.
And that fear base stops you
from being able to communicate.
So I've spent my life
looking at things in a way
that I know they're safe, I know
they're there in a good place,
I know that they're
not suffering anymore.
And, you know, people who
commit suicide are suffering.
I don't encourage it.
>>NOORY: They're tormented.
>>GRAU: Yes, I certainly
don't encourage it.
But they're not punished there.
>>NOORY: Can I ask what your
mother was so depressed about?
>>GRAU: My mother-- my mother
lost two sons and my father
died from pancreatic cancer.
And my sister-in-law
died from a brain tumor.
>>NOORY: So she was
in massive grieving.
>>GRAU: Yes, and she just
couldn't get through it.
And she tried.
I mean, she held on
for about 15 years.
And then finally, you
know, she got ill.
She wasn't feeling well.
And she just gave up.
She lived for four days
and I worked hospice.
So I got to help her cross,
which is such a gift for someone
to give you.
>>NOORY: Did you know
she was going to cross?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
She was not cognizant.
She didn't come back.
>>NOORY: Sometimes you
unexpectedly tune in the spirits
of loved ones who
aren't anticipating it.
Let's take a look
at that example.
>> OK, well, let's see if
you can pick up any energies
in the room.
>>GRAU: Well, I pick up a
lot of energies in the room.
I'm going to move towards
your cameraman again.
I really feel compelled
to keep talking
to you about your
friend, cousin, brother.
He's pretty cool.
He was fun when he was young.
He was active, he was outgoing.
Everybody loved him.
He had a great personality.
Does that make sense to you?
And it just feels
like he wants to--
I see him playing music,
not just listening to music.
So I do want to say
that it seems to be he
wanted to play it or be
around it all the time.
So he either played
instruments or was
with people who
played instruments
on a continuous basis
because I'm not just
saying listening to music.
That makes sense to you?
>>MIKO ALLYN QUINONES: Yeah.
>>GRAU: OK.
He's telling me you
were his brother.
He loves you with all his heart.
He wants you to know that
this was an accident.
So he's showing me that he
had an up and down mood.
So, yes, he may have
said I should just die,
everybody would be happy.
But this was not
that particular time.
He wants to make that
very clear to you.
He doesn't want
you to ever think
he'd leave without
talking to you properly.
>>QUINONES: As soon as
Susan walked into the room,
I immediately felt her
gravitating towards me.
I even told the
assistant that I feel
like she's going
to read me or just
something along those lines.
And I was kind of nervous.
And when she started
talking about my cousin,
I was at a loss for words.
She said things that no one
else would know but me and him.
And it made me feel
quite good inside.
I've had so many questions
that are unanswered
and, you know, now that
she said what she did,
I feel, I feel a lot better.
>>NOORY: God, you
help a lot of people.
Can you turn your mediumship
on and off like a switch?
>>GRAU: Actually, James
taught me to do that.
So I use a dial in my head.
And so when I don't
need it, I turn it down.
But sometimes I'll be out to
eat and it just takes over.
I'll see someone across
the room and I'll
hear the mother behind her
saying, tell her I'm here.
Tell her I'm here.
I don't.
It would be completely
inappropriate just being,
you know, a grief
counselor, I just
know better than to do that.
But I do hear them.
Or I'll look across the
room and see someone and go,
oh their grandfather's with them
or their father or their child.
It just kind of comes on.
But I can then turn it down
so that I can eat and enjoy
my company.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>GRAU: It is.
It's fascinating to me.
I'm telling you,
when I do it, when
I see these things, because
I don't watch these,
and when I see them, I'm
going, wow, I said that?
How did I know that?
>>NOORY: How do you know that?
How do you know that it's not
a figment of your imagination,
for example?
>>GRAU: Well, because
I just trust it.
And then when I say it and
it makes sense to them,
then I know it's evidential.
It's evidence that
they're talking
because it's not just random
stuff that makes no sense.
>>NOORY: They know, don't they?
>>GRAU: Yes, they do.
>>NOORY: In what ways can
mediumship facilitate healing
after a loss?
>>GRAU: Well, you just
saw it on the screen.
It's amazing that people
have this pain and mediumship
steps in and loved ones
are there talking to them
and healing them.
>>NOORY: People come to
you, Susan, for clarity.
They come to you for closure.
They want to receive
help with healing
and have you fix their grief.
Let's look at how you connected
to the daughter of someone who
was in your audience.
>>GRAU: I have an
overdosed child.
She feels like-- shifted into--
this feels like
fentanyl and heroin,
or fentanyl and like OxyContin.
She connected to a J-name,
maybe Jessica or Jonathan
or something like that.
There's a connection
there for her.
Somebody has her ring.
There's a ring on her finger.
>> It's here.
>>GRAU: So this was a
little, sweet little kid.
Very, very outgoing and
very, very much had her--
what things should look like.
And always everything was
a little bit difficult.
But she was a sweet little kid.
And she's a sweetie pie.
And she got into drugs.
And it was a battle from
the moment she got into.
It wasn't a short-term thing.
It was a long-term thing.
I'm the kind of--
how long do you
know she was using.
But I see her as a young age,
starting with the early teens.
And she's saying that
she lied and manipulated,
and she's saying more and more.
I'm so sorry what
I put you through.
She actually has a
beautiful energy.
She truly does.
I think-- she's funny,
loved music, loved life.
--for other reasons.
You know, addiction,
really, she had the disease.
It runs in your family
and she caught it.
She says that you are suffering
deeply from the loss of her
and you just want
your baby girl back.
And she said, I'm not going.
I'm not going.
Who took her sweatshirt?
>> I did.
OK, when you wear it,
she's going to hop in.
But also-- whatever
it is you're kissing?
You understand this?
She's seeing you.
She said, OK, fine.
I'm giving you a kiss back.
And she wants you to always
remember she's doing that.
So wherever you are, whatever
this is, this picture,
what is it?
>> That's on a
rose quartz hearth.
>>GRAU: I love it.
All right, so she's
seeing you, just then.
And she wants you to know
she's never going to not see.
Why is she saying
the word "praise"?
>> I was actually singing a
song with that word today.
The lyric was shining
your grace upon me.
>>GRAU: She heard you.
That's what she's telling me
to tell you, she heard you.
>> Thank you.
>>GRAU: She's like
she's suffered.
I'm so sorry for your loss.
>>NOORY: Susan, can you connect
with any spirit you want.
>>GRAU: No, they decide.
>>NOORY: They decide.
>>GRAU: They decide.
What I do is I ask them
to suit up and show up.
That's what I ask them to do.
So I'll be somewhere
and I'll say,
OK, I'm going to
be reading today.
I need you to suit up
and show up for me.
And then it just starts
dropping into my head.
I'm sure that they come
down in their vibration
and I go up in
mine, so that helps.
But I can't go up
nearly as high as they
are so they're coming down
a lot lower than I am.
>>NOORY: What do you say
to skeptics, non-believers?
>>GRAU: It's OK.
They don't need to.
It will come to them if it's
meant to in this life journey.
I think that we put
a lot of pressure
on people to just believe
instead of just allowing
them to do their journey.
Some people just aren't
meant to be in that space
during this time.
But usually when
something happens,
it's when they come see me.
They lose someone they love.
>>NOORY: Take us
through the process
that it takes you to
connect with a spirit.
What do you do?
>>GRAU: I look at the
person and I ask spirit
to tell me something, anything
if they're coming to me.
And stuff just starts
dropping into me
and it just feels like
a vine of information.
Like Ian's telling me, he
flashes things on and off
and he's a little
bit of a jokester,
so I think you
better be prepared
because he's going to be
turning things on and off.
And it might be at
important times.
>>NOORY: Oh great.
>>GRAU: I know.
>>NOORY: He is a jokester.
>>GRAU: He knows Tom also.
He feels very attached to Tom.
So I do want to say that.
And he's saying he's
joking around with him
and he needs him
to pay attention.
>>NOORY: He knows Tom and
Tom talked to him a week
before he died.
Did not think he
was going to die.
>>GRAU: Well, sometimes we
don't, you know, and it happens.
But he's not dead.
Those are human terms.
He's more than alive.
And I think you're more alive
there than you ever are here.
This is-- this seems
like the dream.
This seems like the distance
that we here think it is there.
When you're there,
this is the dream.
>>NOORY: Tell us about your
book, Infinite Life, Infinite
Lessons.
>>GRAU: It's amazing.
Spirit helped me write it.
I heard one day you
need to write a book.
And I said, I'm not a writer.
And I heard, you
need to write a book.
You need to stop everything
and write a book.
And I just sat down and
it came and just flowed.
It's all about exercises
and integrations.
>>NOORY: This is it.
>>GRAU: Oh, yeah.
I'm so proud of it.
And it helps people
understand the spirit world.
It helps them with dying.
It helps them with
different kinds of death.
Like if they have
suicide in their life
or any of those kinds
of losses, murders.
It helps people
tap into exercises
to get closer to spirit.
It has so much to
offer, and it also
tells my story of
what happened to me.
>>NOORY: There are two ancient
writings, the Egyptian Book
of the Dead and the Tibetan
Book of the Dead, which
are training guides for
people, teaching them
what's the other
side is like, what
you can expect when you die.
Is that a little bit
of what yours is?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
There's so much clarity in it,
and it's easy to understand.
>>NOORY: Did the spirit kind of
push you into writing this book?
>>GRAU: 100%.
I didn't consider
myself a writer.
I'm writing a second book now
that goes along with this book,
too, because we have
infinite lessons to learn.
And so more is coming.
But it's a really good book.
>>NOORY: We had-- a
well-known singer just passed,
Steve Lawrence.
His wife, Eydie
Gorm, died in 2013.
And this is ironic because
a week before he died,
he was in his '80s, I was online
trying to find out where he was
to get him on my radio show.
And we couldn't find
him at that point.
And then he dies a week later.
What are the odds
of that happening?
>>GRAU: Well, it came into
your head for a reason.
That's how it works.
The spirit world just
makes things happen
and they get-- we have notice.
We're told things.
We're just not listening.
We are busy.
You know, we're doing life
and we're not listening
to what they're saying to us.
And they really do want
us to pause and listen.
And if we stay where
our feet are, literally
like in this present
moment, if we're present,
we're able to hear them
and experience them much
stronger than when we're not.
And we, on this
planet, walk around
not present a lot of the time.
We're working, we're
rushing, we're talking,
we're, you know, we're busy.
And so being present
really helps.
But the odds are very strong
if you're connected to someone
or you're looking for someone
that they could pop in,
you just happen to pause
and hear the information.
His name--
>>NOORY: I picked it up.
What are some of the
common misperceptions
about life and death?
>>GRAU: That we are
punished over there
or that we know-- we have
sins that we have to pay for,
that we're not going to
see our loved ones, which
is the furthest
thing from the truth.
You see them immediately.
And in hospice, I watch them
see them before they died.
They were there talking to them.
We are with them.
And that they love us
unconditionally no matter what.
And that your soul
can never be damaged.
That's a really important
thing, is to recognize that.
It doesn't get wounds.
Our spirit does, and spirit
is the breath of life.
So our spirit, our
heart, our brain, yes,
gets damaged, but
our soul never.
It is the only thing we have to
be able to go inward to heal.
We have to have something in
there or we would never heal.
And so the soul is there
for us through spirit.
It always is and always will be.
>>NOORY: Your book explores
the concept of in-between.
What is that?
>>GRAU: It's what
we're doing right now.
We're not dying in this moment.
We're not having
the actual crossover
and we're not being birthed.
The in-between is life.
Life on life's terms.
>>NOORY: Is it good
to be in-between?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
There's an in-between too,
in between coming back here
because I was in-between.
I was in that realm.
And I felt it and saw it.
And they spoke to me and told
me I'd be returning to my body.
And that was in-between also.
So there's two
separate in-betweens
and the book talks about that.
It's like a two-sided mirror.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you believe
in reincarnation, Susan?
>>GRAU: I do.
Absolutely.
I think it's ego
to think that we
can do it all in one lifetime.
There's so much to learn.
>>NOORY: Do we get better
perceptively each time
we come back?
>>GRAU: I believe we do.
And what's wonderful about
that is that we don't remember.
And we don't remember
for a reason.
If I remember it, it
would change my journey.
I would make different decisions
that my free will wouldn't
be involved with.
It would be, oh I
knew that there,
so I'm not going to do that,
this and that, and this
and that.
Instead of allowing myself
to evolve and grow and expand
in my energy.
We're here for soul expansion.
And it's so important for us.
>>NOORY: Sometimes if you died
in a past life of, let's say,
a drowning, you're afraid
of water in this life.
How does that work?
>>GRAU: Well, I think
it's more a memory,
an imprint that happens to us.
And our heart also goes with us.
Our brain does not.
Our heart carries
the memories we need.
And I believe that when we
come back, we have that heart.
And I'm sure they block out
what we don't-- what we're not
supposed to on our next round.
But I think that has
something to do with it.
I do.
>>NOORY: I never knew my
grandfather on my father's side.
He died before I was born.
He died at about 50.
But I remember my father as
he got close to that age just
seemed to panic, you know,
because I think he really
thought he was
going to go at 50.
He ended up going
until he was 88.
But when you look at the
lifestyle of your parents,
do you sometimes feel
this could happen to me?
>>GRAU: Absolutely.
I remember when my father
got pancreatic cancer
and when he died, I went
to the doctor three times.
Every time I got an ache or a
pain, I thought, I must have it.
I think that's our
human condition.
We have fear.
And again, like I said--
>>NOORY: Do you still think
about pancreatic cancer even
to this day?
>>GRAU: No, I don't now.
>>NOORY: Not anymore.
>>GRAU: But what
we fear, we feed.
I allow myself to feel it.
And then I go, no
more fear right now.
Not today, Susan.
You don't have it now.
And if you do,
you don't know it.
So not today.
That's what I tell myself.
And that brings me
back to the now.
>>NOORY: Eat almonds.
Edgar Cayce said they
would help fight cancer.
>>GRAU: Wow.
I do eat them.
So that's good.
>>NOORY: Good.
Two a day, he said, minimum.
>>GRAU: That's good to know.
>>NOORY: So what's next for you?
>>GRAU: My second
book, which is actually
called the Two-Sided Mirror.
We aren't just souls
having a human experience.
We are humans having
a soul experience.
And that's the two sides.
>>NOORY: You know, the medium
James Van Praagh quite well.
>>GRAU: I do.
>>NOORY: He's one of the best.
>>GRAU: He's one
of my faves, yeah.
>>NOORY: He's very sensitive
and he's had an incredible life.
>>GRAU: He has.
I just had dinner with him four
nights ago, five nights ago.
>>NOORY: What does
James order for dinner?
>>GRAU: Well, he
got the cookies.
I definitely he got the cookies.
>>NOORY: He loves cookies.
>>GRAU: Yes, chocolate chip.
>>NOORY: And he was a consultant
and ghost whisperer, I remember,
wasn't he?
>>GRAU: Yes, he was.
>>NOORY: A long time ago.
>>GRAU: He was.
He's a wonderful man.
He's very kind.
He's very helpful.
He's on your side.
And I love that.
That's what I try to be, I
aspire to be that for people.
>>NOORY: Expert in
reincarnation as well.
>>GRAU: Yes, he is.
>>NOORY: What do you tell
someone who's afraid of dying?
>>GRAU: Well, I think that that
is a normal human condition,
to be afraid.
I don't want to die.
I don't want to
leave my loved ones.
I'm not afraid of being
on the other side.
I'm afraid of how I'll die.
>>NOORY: There's no rush
to get to the other side.
But you do think
about it as you age.
>>GRAU: Yeah, I'm 65
in a couple of months.
So, yes, I do
think about it as--
>>NOORY: I'm 110.
Yeah.
>>GRAU: Well, you look
pretty good for 110.
>>NOORY: Actually, my
mother is going to be 95
and she's driving herself
and stuff like that.
She just keeps going.
>>GRAU: Yeah.
>>NOORY: She just keeps going.
So it's normal and
natural to think
about the other side, isn't it?
>>GRAU: It is.
And it's normal to fear
how you're going to die.
But if you think of it this
way, if there is no other side,
you won't know the difference
because there'll be nothing.
So you won't know.
So it might be behoove us to
think about the other side
and think, wow, that
really could be.
And wouldn't that be exciting?
Why not?
It doesn't harm us.
So if you do fear death,
usually our humanness
fears how we're
going to die, not
being on the other side or not.
Because there's nothing
to fear if it isn't there.
>>NOORY: Do we get to pick
our reincarnated next life?
>>GRAU: Yes.
There's a room called
the room of knowledge.
A lot of people call
it the Akashic--
I don't even--
>>NOORY: The Akashic Records.
>>GRAU: Thank you.
I don't even-- it's
so out of my box
because they taught me it
was the room of knowledge.
And that's what I call it.
And in there, I saw them
making choices and decisions.
And I actually saw them
discouraging some of it,
like you don't want to
go through all that.
And we have free will.
And so I heard them
say, yes, I do.
I can handle it.
But, you know, free will
is involved in everything.
Everything is not planned.
>>NOORY: That is so true.
How do people get a
hold of you, Susan?
>>GRAU: They can go
to ssusangrau.com.
They can go to social
media, Susan Grau Official.
They can call my lines.
They go online and
just type in Susan Grau
and they'll see it populate.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on the program.
>>GRAU: Thanks for having me.
I had a really good time.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: Me too.
Me too.
There was a time, I'll
be honest with you,
I doubted the existence
of the other side.
I had a friend of mine who
died in a motorcycle accident
and I went to his funeral.
And I'm looking at
the body, and it just
dawned on me that it was over.
It was done for him.
But then all of a sudden, I had
this stark feeling of loneliness
that wore off instantly.
And I felt happy again because
I know he lives forever.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]